mutating webhook guide (#184)
castai/docs: docs/guides/mutating-admision-webhook.md

---
description: Information on how to put workloads on Spot instances without modification
---
# Mutating Admission Webhook

It takes time and effort to modify workload manifests to achieve desired savings. CAST AI Mutating Admission Webhook slightly
modifies workload manifests on-the-fly. It is a quick and effortless way to achieve savings without modifying each workload.

When ever there is a request to schedule a pod, CAST AI Mutating Admission Webhook (mutating webhook for short) will mutate
workload manifest, for example add spot toleration, to influence desired Pod placement by Kubernetes Scheduler.

CAST AI Mutating Admission Webhook modes:

- Spot-only
- Partial Spot
- [Soon] Intelligent placement on Rebalancing

## Spot-only

> Spot-only mutating webhook will mark everything in your cluster as suitable for spot instances in effect making all nodes spot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spot-only mutating webhook will mark all workloads in your cluster as suitable for spot instances, making autoscaler prefer spot instances when upscaling the cluster.
```

> This will make cluster very cost-efficient, recommended for Development, Staging environments, batch job processing clusters etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this will make cluster most cost-efficient, choosing this mode is recommended for Development, Staging environments, batch job processing clusters, etc.
```

The CAST AI autoscaler will create Spot instances only if pod has "spot toleration", see [Spot/Preemptible Instances](spot.md).
Mutating Webhook will add Spot toleration to all workloads being scheduled.

### Install spot only mutating webhook

> For running all pods (including kube-system) on spot instances use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running all pods (including kube-system) on spot instances:
```

```shell
helm upgrade -i --create-namespace -n castai-pod-node-lifecycle castai-pod-node-lifecycle \
    https://storage.googleapis.com/alpha-prereleases/castai-pod-node-lifecycle/castai-pod-node-lifecycle-latest.tgz \
    --set staticConfig.preset=allSpot

> ```

Reviewer 2: The commands are all the same except for the `preset` argument. Maybe the doc would be much shorter if the command could be written once and then all the different presets were explained?

For running all workload pods (excluding kube-system) on spot instances use:

```shell
helm upgrade -i --create-namespace -n castai-pod-node-lifecycle castai-pod-node-lifecycle \
    https://storage.googleapis.com/alpha-prereleases/castai-pod-node-lifecycle/castai-pod-node-lifecycle-latest.tgz \
    --set staticConfig.preset=allSpotExceptKubeSystem
```

> Existing running Pod can't be mutated, only during scheduling. Overtime all pods will be re-scheduled and in turn mutated,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: existing running pods will not be affected. Webhook only mutates pods during during scheduling. Over time all pods should eventually be re-scheduled and in turn mutated,
```

application owners will release new version of workload, which will triggering all replicas to be rescheduled, Evictor or Rebalancing
will remove older nodes, putting Pods for rescheduling etc. If one wants to initiate mutation for whole namespace quickly run this command:

```shell
kubectl -n {NAMESPACE} rollout restart deploy
```

## Partial spot

When 100% of Pods on spot instances is not desirable, but some ration say 60% on stable on-demand instances and
remaining 40% of Pods in same ReplicaSet (Deployment / StatefulSet). This conservative configuration ensures there is

> enough Pods on stable compute for base load, but still allows achieving significant savings for Pods above base load.

Reviewer 2: You have to re-read this paragraph. It seems some words are missing.
